All right in today's lecture we're going to be going over 2. perspective now to point perspective is
very similar to one point perspective.
Really the only difference is that there are two vanishing points on a horizon line and those vanishing
points eventually connect.
Now let me show you what I mean.
So the first thing we always want to do when we're drawing perspective if you want to create a horizon
line and so remember the higher up your horizon line is the more it's going to look like you're looking
down on your objects and the lower It is the more it's going to look like you're looking up at your
objects.
So for example we're going to put it right in the middle so we're about eye level with our objects.
The next thing we want to do is you want to decide where are vanishing points are going to be.
So we're going to put one at both ends of our horizon line so one there and one there.
Generally you want to keep your vanishing points as far apart as possible on your horizon line.
The closer they get the more distorted your image is going to look.
So we're going to put them on the foreigns And now we can go ahead and get started.
The first thing you want to do is you want to create a vertical line.
And this is going to be the corner of our object.
So create one vertical line like so.
And then what we want to do is we want to create the first face of our objects so we're going to create
the right side face of what's going to be a cube.
So all we do is we connect this edge or this end of our vertical line to this vanishing point.
So let's go ahead and lightly draw that in and then we do the same thing for the top
and we go ahead and do the same for our third one.
Go ahead and connect this Glasman.
So rather than looking down at one single vanishing point now we have two vanishing points on her page.
And so at this point it vanishes into that point.
And this plane vanishes into that point.
The next thing we want to do is we want to go ahead and create the other edges of our box so I'm going
to put another vertical line right there and then I'll put one more right over here on this edge.
Next.
Let's go ahead and drop in our bottom vertical lines and are top ones.
So they're more solidified.
So we'll draw from right there too right there.
Do the same thing for up here.
All right so now we have our cube into perspective.
So as you can see like I said each plane goes off to its own vanishing point.
Now let's go ahead and try another type of box.
So let's put a box in a different position so we'll put a box right here.
So go ahead and draw a vanishing line like so.
And that can be where my vertical line begins.
You can start off by drawing the center vertical line or you can start off by drawing where you want
the edges of your box to be.
So let's go ahead and draw this vertical line right here and I'll have it cover in this one.
Then we'll go ahead and draw from that vanishing point to this top edge of the line.
And we'll do the same thing for this side.
Whoops that was a little bit off but it will be fine.
Make sure they double check make sure you're on the vanishing point before you draw your line.
All right.
Perfect.
So now what we want to do is we want to decide where are edges will be on the other side so I'll put
one edge right here and then I'll put another edge right here.
Now that we know where those edges are we can go ahead and create our top surface for our box.
So I'm going to come from this vanishing point to this edge of my box.
So go ahead and lightly draw that in Ixo and then go ahead and do the same thing for the other side.
So from this edge right here when I draw back to my vanishing point
and then we can go ahead and solidify all these lines and erase anything that we don't want to see.
So for example we don't want to see this line right here.
And I drew it in pretty dark so it's going to be kind of hard to erase.
That's why I always say that you need to draw lightly until you know exactly what you're doing.
Then we can go ahead and solidify these lines so we're going to start with this one word here.
Is just go all the way around and make sure that all her lines are really dark so we can really see
where this box is.
All right so now we've created a second box that is a little bit lower than this box so it appears to
be a little bit closer to us because it's in front of this one in its lower from the horizon line.
Let's try another one that's higher up so let's put one up here.
So let's go ahead and start by creating our vertical line.
Next let's go ahead and draw our vanishing point lines.
Draw from there to there from the top edge to our vanishing point do the same thing on this side.
And once you start feeling comfortable you don't even have to draw all the way back to your vanishing
point.
You can just draw right along this edge here to about the point where you think you're going to end
your box next.
Let's go ahead and draw our other vertical line so we'll draw one right here.
Draw a second one right here.
And then let's go ahead and draw our second Vanishing Point lines from this edge corner all the way
back turning machine points will draw a line there.
Number two the same thing for the other edge
and we want to make sure that they cross right there.
That's where we know we can stop them.
Let's go ahead and solidify these lines by drawing them in darker
All right great.
Now one more thing I want to show you is how to connect a box into one perspective so let's say we wanted
a smaller box right here ad that's touching this box or connected to this box or this is how you do
it.
First you want to start a vertical line starting on your actual box.
So let's go ahead and grab our ruler and draw a vertical line like so.
And however you want your box that's how tall this needs to be.
Next quote We're going to do is we're going to go ahead and draw a line from this vanishing point to
that edge.
So but we don't have to draw all the way across here.
We just want to start it right here so we can go ahead and draw a dark line like so next to what we
need to do is we need to draw a line from our vanishing point down to this point right here.
So we can go ahead and draw that in and just eyeballing about where that would be coming straight down
from that point.
So now you go ahead and draw in our vertical line from there to there so and then we want to connect
this quarterback to that vanishing point and this back to that vanishing point.
So let's go ahead and do that
and then let's go ahead and connect the top on
and again I'm just eyeballing about where that is coming straight down from there.
So then we can go ahead and try and come down like so.
And then we want to create that top line for this box.
So let's go ahead and create that.
So all we have to do to do that is draw a line from our vanishing point to that top corner here.
So go ahead and draw that in.
And then we have to connect it from this side to that point.
Also
go ahead and connect that.
So now I have a top line.
Now all we have to do is just go ahead and erase away area of the box.
We don't want to see because it's behind the transparent box.
You can leave that there.
All right.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture we learn about 2 point perspective and how it works.
We learned that you have to have two vanishing points on your horizon line and those are vanishing points
have to connect at some point to create your object such as this cube right here.
We also learned that the lower your object is on your page the more you're going to see the top surface
and the higher it is the more eager to see its bottom surface.
We also learn how to connect one object to another and in the next lecture we're going to go ahead and
actually draw a picture using two point perspective.
Now with your assignment for this lecture is to go ahead and create two point perspectives so you can
draw the same exact picture I drew right here.
Or if you want you can go ahead and experiment and try placing the cubes in different areas in different
sizes and shapes of cubes.
And go ahead and create that 2 point perspective.
Don't worry about making shapes like circles or triangles or anything right now because that's a little
bit more complicated and we'll get into that later.
For now just practice creating cubes in 2 point perspective.
Thanks for watching and I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.